✨(authentication) add OpenId Connect authentication (#262)
openfun/ralph: docs/api.md

"expires_in":300,
"refresh_expires_in":1800,
"refresh_token":"eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCIgOiAiSldUIiwia2lkIiA6ICI4MDc5NjExMi1iMjkyLTRhNzYtYWE1Zi0yNzAzMmZhNzI0YTMifQ.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.OdD7xljeBzORdOmHrGoqoUdNqxfjVt8WMeMPmOm6itY",
"token_type":"Bearer",
"not-before-policy":0,
"session_state":"22a36735-e35f-496b-a243-152d32ebff45",
"scope":"profile email"
}
```

Send the access token to the API server as a Bearer header:

```bash

> $ curl http://localhost:8100/whoami --header "Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsInR5cCIgOiAiSldUIiwia2lkIiA6ICJSTWlLMFhESmRaVnhSNUI5dmVOMzdpMXlIWVk3ZmluQXdwU0pjRnRTeE44In0.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.MljNbx8msaVVaD0FriEceWcBESzjIch2ZVwgFq_yeoBdXo-fT7w4S2MVGM1Vm7Cbo1oaXj_udPDRd0MgSDF-cCj9GpQ4b58mEQLxI4V0gVDVLT7ZFUKTRGVx3oRLYPs9uswr_BjgHOvxTTYnAQMDxkGeDeN1dllgwhV1uuy6NtaiMHYW7nGFO04cqgHpWUbzJZTtS-edz-V-J3eZWULUpV2PDEepjGDwp8SAVxZ0hTwJPrW2JesYlecjgBztWNa_Bh03nImci5eX0a60mWhwTGLko2q_QlI51zd1r_9q0VFgB0WcEtnv3MyGuDatcDhb5J6GE9yxxQcz4hLErRwuZQ"

Reviewer: ditto

< {"username":"john.doe@example.com","scopes":["authenticated","example_scope"]}
```

### OpenID Connect authentication

Ralph LRS API server supports OpenID Connect (OIDC) on top of OAuth 2.0 for authentication and authorization.

> To enable OIDC auth, you should set the `RALPH_RUNSERVER_AUTH_BACKEND` environment variable to `oidc`, and you should define the `RALPH_RUNSERVER_AUTH_OIDC_ISSUER_URI` environment variable with your identity provider's Issuer Identifier URI as such:

Reviewer 2: I suggest to have a more visual documentation for setting environment variables. User just have to copy/paste the proposed configuration (and adapt it if necessary)

```suggestion
To enable OIDC auth, you should set the `RALPH_RUNSERVER_AUTH_BACKEND` environment variable as follows:
`
RALPH_RUNSERVER_AUTH_BACKEND=oidc

and you should define the `RALPH_RUNSERVER_AUTH_OIDC_ISSUER_URI` environment variable with your identity provider's Issuer Identifier URI as follows:
`
RALPH_RUNSERVER_AUTH_OIDC_ISSUER_URI=http://{provider_host}:{provider_port}/auth/realms/{realm_name}
`
```

> `http://{provider_host}:{provider_port}/auth/realms/{realm_name}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This address must be accessible to the LRS on startup as it will perform OIDC Discovery to retrieve public keys and other information about the OIDC environment.

It is also strongly recommended that you set the optional `RALPH_RUNSERVER_AUTH_OIDC_AUDIENCE` environment variable to the origin address of the LRS itself (ex. "http://localhost:8100") to enable verification that a given token was issued specifically for the LRS.

#### Identity Providers

OIDC support is currently developed and tested against Keycloak but may work with other identity providers that implement the specification.

> The repository [Learning analytics playground](https://github.com/openfun/learning-analytics-playground/) contains a Docker Compose file and configuration for a demo instance of Keycloak with a `ralph` client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Learning analytics playground](https://github.com/openfun/learning-analytics-playground/) repository contains a Docker Compose file and configuration for a demo instance of Keycloak with a `ralph` client.
```
